# Credit Card Fraud Detection Tool
<br>Credit card fraud detection is a prevalent issue even as cutting-edge technology continues to advance year after year. It has become increasingly important to detect and dismiss fraudulent transactions before they can be processed and approved. Credit card fraud results in billions of dollars in losses annually in the United States for both banks and customers, and the sheer volume of transactions today makes it impossible for traditional manual detection methods to keep up. Our group was interested in this issue and wanted to explore creating different machine learning models in Python to detect fraudulent credit card transactions using a variety of features. Our objective is to develop an automated machine learning model capable of detecting fraudulent transactions with high accuracy, with a particular focus on minimizing false negatives without unnecessarily blocking legitimate customer transactions. The dataset we used is from Kaggle and includes several important and interesting features that can be incorporated into our model, such as the distance from the last transaction and the ratio to the customer’s median purchase price. The dataset contains about one million unique rows and eight columns. We did not encounter any unusual results during our exploratory data analysis; however, it is important to note that the ratio to median price, online order status, and distance from home were the most impactful features in determining whether a transaction was classified as fraud. <br><br>
	One of our SMART questions which we were able to answer in our EDA step of our project was: which features are most correlated with being classifying a transaction as fraud. Our following and more in-depth question was which machine learning model will yield better accuracy in detecting fraud credit card transactions among logistical regression, support vector classifier (SVC), decision tree, and random forest. We wanted to cover a wide variety of methodology in order to compare and determine the most effective and efficient model in detecting credit card fraud. <br><br>
	We used 4 models in total, with different outcomes. First, we split the dataset into train and test data using a 0.8 train size and then applied SMOTE to the train data, since our large and unbalanced dataset has previously shown to be ineffective in a SVM model. We used the data to train and tested a Logistic Regression model and an SVC model, which showed strong overall performances achieving 94% and 93% accuracy respectively. Precision was similar for both models and Logistic regression scored a slightly higher F-1 score for fraud reflecting a better balance between precision and recall. We then deployed a Decision Tree Classifier model and a Random Forest, which showed impressive performances. Both models show perfect performance across all evaluation metrics and show exceptional ability to capture the full complexity of the data without misclassifications. While these impressive performances show strong predictive power, these can also suggest a potential overfitting.  
              During the implementation of the SMOTE process, technical problems were encountered. Upon executing the code chunk, it would tend to run infinity. This was resolved by using the LinearSVC import. This tends to run faster and is able to handle larger datasets due to it using the LIBLINEAR library. In the future, to build more accuracy, it might be better to have a dataset that has more edge cases. This will serve to fool a lot of the decision trees and get a more accurate reading. Also,  ADASYN could’ve been used instead of SMOTE to get a perfect 50/50 dataset.

